## Hello once again everybody!

It has been a few months without updates. A lot of stuff happened during this last months, my life took some unexpected turns and I had to focus on other things.

To be honest, this entry might have more of a personal update vibe than a technical one, but I still want to share some of the things that happened and why I was not able to keep up with the updates nor working too much in the game at all.

---

## So about the game...

Mainasutto has been on a partial "hiatus" state for the last 7-8 months. I have reworked some of the logic, improved performance in some areas, but in the game itself I have not been able to do much, this is due to multiple reasons, but one of the most important ones is that **I don't know what to do**.

### Unexperience Finishing Stuff

The main reason why Mainasutto has been in development during all these years and never got released is that **I don't know what I'm doing. I have no idea how to make a game from start to finish**, yes I've made some games before for gamejams, or worked in a few projects as a collaborator in the programming side, making systems, tools and other things to help the developer experience but I've never been the one in charge of a project, and I don't know how to **finish** a game.

Since I have been making games around 2010, I have never finished a single game, not the fangames of IWBTG, not the Megaman-like project I was the main programmer, and not Mainasutto. Yes, I've made a lot of MVP and POC/Demos, but never a full game. I don't know how to finish a game because I don't know how to structure a game.

**I might be a very good programmer, but I am an awful game developer.**

### Game Engine Changes

Since the conception of the game as an idea back in... 2014-2015? I've changed the engine from GameMaker 8 to GameMaker Studio 1, then to GameMaker Studio 2, then I moved to the GMS v2.3 and now for the last years I've been working with the newest "GameMaker" engine with monthly updates, and almost everytime I've changed the engine, specially the first 3 times, **I had to restart the whole project or make a really big refactor** that ended up taking me at least a year to finish. **Those years summed up might be around 3-4 years only on development time.**

**Why did I changed engine so much?** I tried to use all the features the engine offered me, even if those features didn't really add too much to the game, and I ended up with a lot of technical debt. At the end, this project ended up being a "playground" kind of things where I tested the capabilities of some aspects of the engine, but not really a game. **I have a lot of things made inside this project and some of them will never see the light of day** because they were just experiments, and I don't want to keep doing that.

### Constant Restarts

Another thing that happened a lot during the development of Mainasutto is that **I've "restarted" the project a lot**. I have a lot of different versions of the game, some of them with different mechanics, some of them with a bit different art styles, some of them with different ideas, and most importantly some of them with vastly different stories to tell. In total **I think the game story has been restarted around 9-10 times**, and every time I restarted the story I also restarted the work in game mechanics and some game sprites including the player.

During the years **I've made so many changes to the original story that I don't even know what the original story was anymore.** I haven't sit down and write down the final version of the story in the document I had for almost 4 years, and **at this point that whole document is worthless** since the story also changed a lot since then.

I've been thinking a lot about this lately, since Mainasutto is a very heavy story-driven game, I need to have a clear idea of what the story is, what the characters are, and what the world is. I need to have a clear idea of what I want to tell, and how I want to tell it. But for that, **I also need to have a good worldbuilding, and a good world building requires a lot of time and effort**, and I'm not the one who knows how to do that. **I'm in need of help**. Maldo has been helping me a lot with it, but our sessions are not as frequent as I would like them to be, and without that I don't even feel like working on the game because maybe anything I do could be thrown away in the next months.

### Feature Creep

One of the struggles to be a solo-dev is that you are the only one who decides what to do and what to work on, and that can be a double-edged sword.

**After years of development, I have a lot of ideas, and I want to implement all of them**, this is a very common problem in game development, and it is called "Feature Creep". **The major problem with this is that you keep adding and adding stuff to the game, and you never finish it**. As I mentioned before, there are a lot of things in Mainasutto that will never see the light of day, and there's a lot of things that were seen in demos that have been totally removed from the game.

A lot of concepts in the story has changed a lot, that made the game mechanics change a lot so I added more features or transformed the current ones in newer features, along that the level design had to change because of the changes in mechanics and in story, and that made the art change because it didn't fit anymore what I wanted to show and how the game was played, and so on. **This is a never-ending cycle that I need to break, and I need to break it now.**


### Too Perfectionistic

One of the biggest problems I've and have affected me in almost every aspect of my life is that I am a perfectionist. **I not only want but need some things to be perfect, and that has been a huge problem for me in the development of Mainasutto**. As you may know, I always advocated to have a very performant game, I've made systems to make the game run at 60fps on low-end machines, and I always try to optimize everything I can, but that has been a problem for me because **I end up spending a lot of time optimizing stuff that doesn't really matter in the end, and not spending time in the things that really matter in a videogame, the gameplay and making the game fun to play.**

**The player will never experience thouse thousands of hours of optimization I did if I never release the fucking game.** And the player won't even care about the game if I the game is not even fun.

---

## So what happened to me?

Life was rough the first months of the year, I had to deal with a lot of personal issues, along that **I had to go back to Chile**, I couldn't stay anymore in Canada due to some changes in the migratory proccess that made it impossible for me to stay there and get my PR even if I wanted to, and **that was a very hard decision for me, but I had to do it**.

My ex-girlfriend was able to stay in Canada and take care of our cats, but **I miss them single every day**, those cats made me company when noone was there. **I had to leave behind everything** I formed during the last year, and go back home from scratch. **I had to start over** with now less money, no place of my own, no girlfriend, and without the cat, my cat, the one I took care of for almost 3 years since it was a kitten, and I had to leave it behind because even if I could take it with me, **I didn't had a place to keep him safe and stress-free**, and I didn't want to take him for the opportunity to have a better life in Canada, so I left him with my ex.

But hey, **at least I was able to keep my job remotely**, and I think that's one of the reasons why I was able to keep going, my team.

So back in Chile at least **I had some family to help me out and give me a place to stay**. The bad news is that **I'm in a city where I don't know anyone**, I don't have any friends here, the lifestyle is different, and I had to adapt to a lot of things that I didn't have to deal during the last 10 years I lived alone or with my ex. But I miss my friends, I really miss social interaction, **for the last 5 months I've been mostly alone**, even though I have my family and I go to gym, I'm a very introverted person, and I don't really like or know how to really socialize with people, so I end up being alone most of the time, and that has been really hard for me and my mental health. Gladly last week I had the chance to travel to my hometown and see some of my friends, and that was really nice. It was a refreshing experience, and I really needed it.

On the other hand, **I've been able to save some money to move back to Santiago**, where most of the friends and people I met during these last 10 years are living, and I think **that will help me a lot to get back on track with my life** too. I'm still working in some things to be able to move back due to some regulations here in Chile, even if I have the money I cannot rent a place without having at least 3 to 12 months of work contract depending on the place, and I don't have that since I work remotely and basically as a freelancer, so I need to find a way to get around that, but I'm sure I'll be able to do it soon enough. In the mean time I'm saving money.

Anyways, **lately things have started to get better and I'm starting to feel better too**. There's a job opportunity that I might take in the next months, I've resumed conversations with some old friends, and there's someone... "Interesting" back on my life that I really like and I hope things go well. You know, **life is a rollercoaster and very cyclic**, sometimes you are on the top of the world, and sometimes you are at the bottom of it, but **you always need to keep going, and that's what I'm trying to do now**. 

---

## So what now?

**If I keep working on Mainasutto like I have been during the last 10 years, I will never finish it, and that's the cold hard truth.** I need to sit down and prioritize what I want to do, **I don't want to be a solo-dev anymore**. I think now I'm in a position where I can spend a few hundreds a month to pay people to help me with the game, and just **focus on what I know how to do, which is programming**.

**I want to make a small studio.** I want to have a team of people who can help me with the game, and help me finish it. Maybe not in the next year, but **in the next 3 years I want to have a game** that I can be proud of. **I'll be looking for people to help me in all different aspets of the game** that I don't really know how to do, like **art, storytelling, level design, and most importantly production, direction and planning**. **I need to sit down for a few 3-6 months and plan the game** with these people, and then start working on it with a clear idea of what I want to do so we can start working in a demo to present to a publisher who can help us with the funding and the marketing of the game in the long run.

## Some End Notes

I know this is not the update you were expecting, but I think it was important to share what happened during these last months, and why I was not able to keep up with the updates nor working too much in the game at all. I hope you understand, and I hope you can forgive me for not being able to keep up with the updates. 

Also, **I wanna thank you all** for your support during these years, specially to **Erik**, the music composer of the game, who has been working in the project for YEARS, I mean years and years with me and I think I have never thanked him enough for his work, and I really appreciate it. Also to **Maldo**, who has been a really good support and have helped me a lot with the game story and worldbuilding, and to **all the people who have been supporting me and the project** during these years, specially the **discord community**, I really, really, appreciate it.

**I hope that the next update comes along as something more positive**, and I hope that I can share with you some good news about the game development.
