## New Enemies: **Geobro** & **Daia Mondo**!

I needed enemies for the new area in progress "Crystal Caverns", and I had no ideas about cave enemies that were not the typical skeletons and spiders (_I really would like someone to give me ideas for enemies, I'm very bad at that_), so I decided to get a little inspired by a Pokémon and ended up doing this enemy placeholder called **Geobro**.

But as an enemy is not enough, I made an alternative version too, which works the same way, but is stronger and diamond-shaped. I didn't find a more original name than **Daia Mondo** (I didn't take a creativity class for this joke).

<div class="image-container">

<video loop controls>
  <source src="https://video.twimg.com/tweet_video/DkQXcQ6XoAE8yDb.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

(Enemies in action)

</div>

Both work very simply, when the player enters his vision range, they prepare a loaded attack that regardless of whether the player has left their range, they slide in the air in the direction of where they last saw the player.

They are not very difficult to dodge alone, however, in groups of more than 3 they could be more complicated. The idea of use is for a **Daia Mondo** to stay close to the player by cutting his pace because they attack slower, while the **Geobro** around throw themselves towards the player since their attack is faster.

---

## Food drop/eating System

Another thing that is implemented is the meals, inspired by the Castlevania meal system: SotN but a little improved. This food system causes the player to use the food item, the food falls in the direction where the player looks so that he can eat it, however, there are both good and bad foods.

Good meals, on the one hand, heals HP, charge stamina or cure states of the player, for example, a glass of milk cures the state of poisoning while adding HP to the player.

However, there are bad foods, such as poisonous mushrooms, which will not harm the player, but will produce a state of poisoning.

<div class="image-container">

<video loop controls>
  <source src="https://video.twimg.com/tweet_video/Dk5k1uJX4Ag7VDn.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

(Dropping some **Hakes**)

</div>

The trick is that not only the player can eat these meals, but also the enemies, thus managing to poison, reduce defense, or even heal your enemies during combat.

It should also be noted that a mechanic that I want to implement soon is to draw the attention of certain enemies with different foods. For example, throwing a **Hake** to the enemy **Killer Fish** will distract the enemy's attention from the Player to the **Hake**, and even though this food heals the enemy, the player will have enough time to attack or flee.
