## Gardens

Because Crystal Caverns is an area that deserves much more work in detail due to its level of importance in the plot during the game, I decided to work only the basics I needed during that time and then focus on the following area: Underground Gardens.

In the gif you can see a first look of this area during 2018, using tiles created by the wonderful Elisha Ramos. (Unfortunately this was the last area we worked for quite some time since then)

<div class="image-container">

<video loop controls>
  <source src="https://video.twimg.com/tweet_video/DnPf98HXcAAGbq_.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

(Underground Gardens area first look)

</div>

Although in this and future gifs Keybold (prologue character) is observed in the Gardens, this does not mean that he's playable in this specific area by the player... Or maybe it will be?

The truth is that I can not tell yet, but I have present for a future post. :wink:

You can see this area from another perspective during a part of the cutscene posted on 2018 on the second meeting with White Body. This time starring Ebul, the character playable in much of the game by the player.

<div class="image-container">

<video loop controls>
  <source src="https://video.twimg.com/tweet_video/Do3iT1_W4AMC8sw.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>

(White Body second encounter)

</div>

It was at this point that I came up with the idea of generating different White Body meetings during the game (despite having this idea in sketch for years, I could never implement it until this moment), and that each encounter delivers information to the player to check how is going in the game.

Needless to say, **White Body is a unique character in the story, since he is the only one who is aware that he is inside a video game**, so he has no problem breaking the fourth wall many times. So **I thought it would be a good idea to guide the player to the true ending**, especially in a game like this with different endings. :wink:

(This idea of guiding the player will be very important in some posts later on.)

_(Update from the future: There are no more TIGSource posts)_ :sad:
